---
layout: post
author: AS
title: "Numbers don't lie about electric cars"
date: 2022-10-02
tags: 
  - book_reading
  - electric_car
  - climate_change
  - greenhouse
  - EV
---
 
Today, I read a story from the book "Numbers don't lie" by Vaclav Smil about why 
electric cars aren't as great as we think yet. I have been reading this book for 
a while and it has been an eye opener at the very least. It is providing me unique 
insights into making important decisions of my life.

We know the benefits of owning an electric vehicle (EV). Some of the well known 
benefts are no greenhouse emissions because of zero tailpipe emissions and high energy 
efficiency with over 77 percent of the electrical energy from the grid being converted 
to powering wheels. Their gasoline counterparts have an energy efficiency of 12-30 percent.
EVs have great driving experience, low noise pollution, lower expenses in mantainence 
and repairs than their gosoline counterparts, government benefits on tax credits, and more...

In the story that I read, two important arguments came up. 
1. If the car is not completely electrical, such as the hybrid EVs and plug-in hybrid EVs, 
then we are actually dependent on charging battery from fossil fuels. Even if the car is 
completely electrical, such as battery EVs, charging batteries with electricity 
generated by combustion of fossil fuels does not make sense when we promote EVs by making 
claims of their reduction in carbon emissions and minimize global warning.
2. Let us say we live in a place where 100 percent electrical energy is produced using 
renewable energy, such as Aspen, CO, USA, even then the manufacturing process of the cars 
involve greenhouse gas emissions. 

These arguments make complete sense to me. If one has to make a decision of buying a car, 
then we should consider these arguments. 

Sources:
1. Energy efficiency percentages - https://www.energycouncil.com.au/analysis/evs-are-they-really-more-efficient/
2. City of Aspen with 100 percent renewable energy - https://www.cityofaspen.com/1202/Renewable-Energy